= AnalyzeCopy

Torture-testing of File managers and programs that copy files on Mac OS X.  Things you ought to know but probably would rather not.


== Introduction

A lot of programs have difficulties copying files.

Things to consider when copying files are:
1. Data Fork
2. Resource Fork
3. Permissions
4. Time Stamps
5. BSD Flags
6. Finder Flags
7. Extended Attributes
8. Access Control Lists
9. Hardlinks / Symlinks
10. Special file types

Because there are so many things, it's really no surprise that it's causing problems for untested programs.


== FEATURES

This program generates a HTML comparison table.


== INSTALL

lorem ipsum


== AUTHOR

Simon Strandgaard
* mailto:simon@opcoders.com




AnalyzeCopy - black box validation suite for copying files
copyright 2009 - Simon Strandgaard

project name:
AnalyzeCopy

project description:
Torture-testing of File managers and programs that copy files. 

------------------------------------------------------------
see this article.

http://www.coredumps.de/doc/dump/zwicky/testdump.doc.html

Torture-testing Backup and Archive Programs: 
Things You Ought to Know But Probably Would Rather Not
         Elizabeth D. Zwicky 
         SRI International
         Lisa V 1991

------------------------------------------------------------


Inspirion comes from "Backup Bouncer" by "Nathaniel Gray",
which I was very surprised to see. Its code is very elegant
and some of the things going on is quite hard to do in Ruby.

I choose not to extend his code, since I cannot code BASH
and would have a hard time figuring out how to add reporting
features. 

I already have a whitebox test suite.


------------------------------------------------------------

Vision: 
 1. test for correctness
 2. test for speed
 3. test "copy" tools on multiple platforms
 4. generate a HTML report

Mission right now:
 1. something that can test my own "copy" program for correctness.


------------------------------------------------------------
IDEA: html report should gather data from the result dirs, 
such as exitstatus, version, long version, is_ignored.

IDEA: 80_resource_fork, should be splitted into a 
62_hardlink_resource test, so that tools that have no hardlink
support also fails the resource fork test, despite having 
resource fork support.

IDEA: chgrp, chown

IDEA: backup date

IDEA: label color

IDEA: Finder vs. attached comments

IDEA: is order of ACL entries preserved.

IDEA: can we copy files with invalid ACL's so the ACL's are preserved.

IDEA: ACL's on symlinks

IDEA: exercise mode_t for mkfifo

IDEA: exercise mode_t for mknod

IDEA: symlinks can have different timestamp than files

IDEA: xattr on symlinks

IDEA: test with difficult filenames

IDEA: test with alias cycles

IDEA: "no resource fork" != "has zero-size resource fork"
exercise this

IDEA: copy dirs using Java's file api, what ever that is

==================================================================

------ stat.atime --------

We could create a read-only volume and copy data from it.
After the copy operation is completed then remount the
target volume as read-only... and then compare atime.
However it's not worth it.


------ stat.ctime --------

stat.ctime is updated when the inode is changed, by the 
filesystem. It's not a user settable property.
So I don't think its possible to test it.


------ cloaked files (inode 0) --------

In the apple filesystem there are some files with inode 0, making
them invisible for most tools. 
I don't think its possible to create files with inode 0 manually,
so there is no way to test this.

